# screed to Chi on abortion and all that

drafted 2009-01-26

<div>
<p>I have taken some time to think about it and I think it would still be best not to tell you my thoughts on issues that are extremely close to your heart. I don't think you would handle it well, and I think mom's reaction would likely be to become even more extreme in her rearing of the four youngest. Unfortunately, however, and especially if you do condemn your life to such a morally abhorrent cause, it will not be possible to forever dance around the issue, and you will have to handle it as best you can at some point. Regarding the second objection, I can take small solace that there is not so much further to go in that direction.<br><br>I give my family license to believe crazy things such as I would not generally accept in other friends. Welcome to my constant experience of knowing that those I love believe things I find repugnant.<br><br><br></p>
<div class="walltext">I do not know Joleigh. The impression I have of her, based on what I have seen and heard, is that she is the type of person who keeps a kitten behind her braces and purrs at parakeets. Her facebook comments are truly inane. Of course I don't really know her, and I suppose my main objection to her is that she has played a part in making my sister the youth figurehead of the Wisconsin Geocentric Witch-hunt Association. I have always thought you blessed with considerable potential, and it pains me that Joleigh contributes to imprisoning your mind in the middle ages, creating a difficult distance between us. And, of course, no family bond protects Joleigh from criticism.<br><br><br>On the topic of abortion, my principle objection is that it is underutilized by slaves of poverty, loneliness, and religion. I think it is ludicrous to pump air through the lungs of vegetables, and that suicide is by and large a good idea for those who think it is. I can see no good argument for life in general being sacred, but I do lean toward the sanctity of particular lives made sacred by those other lives that make it so.<br>
</div>
<br>
</div>
