# Explanations enhance equity

In achieving understanding, a poor explanation can still be sufficient
for people who are relatively advantaged. Better explanations make it
possible for more people to achieve understanding more easily.

For a new idea, there was by definition no prior explanation. It is
generally quite difficult to come up with new useful ideas, and often
takes many years. Only very few people have any understanding of the
new idea at first.

Someone, maybe the discoverer, tries to communicate the new idea. This
may not be a great explanation. It may be cloaked in specialist
language, heavy with background preconceptions, hidden from broader
communities.

The trap of a poor explanation is that it can still be good enough for
the most active, prepared, diligent seekers. Some will realize it
isn't a good explanation, but understand anyway and move on. Others
will fight through the poor explanation and conclude, with a kind of
Stockholm syndrome, that the explanation is canonical. The poor
explanation starts to be repeated to students.

This cycle can get harder to break as it becomes common knowledge that
a subject is difficult, even if the difficulty is not innate but due
to the poor explanation. It becomes hard to differentiate between
removing unneeded complication and "dumbing down" the subject because
people have become attached to the way they learned it. Maybe the
subject is now a "filter class" that people take pride in having
overcome.

An explanation should not be a filter but a fortifier, lifting up the
listener from ignorance to understanding. Things should not be
oversimplified, but should be made as simple as possible, so that as
many people as possible can profit, as quickly as possible, from
sharing in masteryâ€”and contribute to the next ideas.
