# Assume the ability to discern argument validity

To make any progress in reasoning requires assuming the ability to
correctly determine whether arguments are valid given their inference
rules. This is both a mechanical and fundamental process.

Validity is the correctness of the form of an argument, assuming its
inference rules, regardless of the truth of its assumptions. This is a
valid argument:

```r
Assumption: If Socrates drinks hemlock, then Socrates will die.
Assumption: Socrates drinks hemlock.
Inference rule: If P implies Q, and P is true, then Q. (Modus Ponens)
Conclusion: Socrates will die.
```

Any other conclusion from the inference rule and assumptions here is
invalid, a non sequitur. (No other inference rules are included in the
example, not even the law of identity.)

When assumptions and inference rules are all stated clearly, and
especially when every step of multi-step arguments are laid out, it
appears to be a mechanical process to verify whether an argument is
valid. But it is possible to doubt that it can be done correctly, and
impossible to prove that it can, so the ability must be assumed.

As Descartes [asks][] in connection with his demon, “how do I know
that I am not also deceived each time I add together two and three?”
This is hard to imagine, but that is by construction. Perhaps the
demon causes Descartes to conclude from the example above that
Socrates is in France, and completely believe that this follows from
the inference rule and assumptions given. He believes his argument is
valid, but he is wrong, and he is incapable of determining this,
totally anosognostic, unaware of his condition.

[asks]: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Meditations_on_First_Philosophy/Meditation_I "Meditations on First Philosophy by René Descartes"

The ability to identify whether an argument is valid cannot be proved,
because any proof offered would need to be assumed valid. Any attempt
at a proof begs the question. To assume the validity of just a
specific proof of the ability to determine validity of other proofs
might be possible, but the validity assumption would then be
simultaneous with others needed for that proof, which introduces
additional restrictions but unclear benefit.

Arguments are not always stated sufficiently clearly and completely as
to make confirming validity easy, but this is fundamentally a
challenge in understanding the argument. In principle any argument can
be expressed clearly and completely.

The assumption here is that it is possible to identify valid arguments
that really are valid, not that there will never be an accidental,
correctible mistake. The assumption is that when there aren't any
mistakes, the claim that an argument is valid is meaningful.

So while verifying the validity of an argument can be a mechanical
process, the assumption here really is fundamental. The assumption is
first that reasoning can be, in some deep sense, really truly valid,
that this is possible, and second that it is possible to know whether
a given argument has this property.

Validity is tautological but universal truth. If the assumptions and
the inference rules, then the conclusions. This is the first and
deepest sense of correctness.
