# Observations in the vicinity of The Black Hole Motel

drafted 2008-11-23

<p>Zaphod Beeblebrox, literary President of the Galaxy and known advocate of "excitement, adventure, and really wild things," should be advised: field experience increasingly suggests that none of these things are necessarily positive.  However, having all but made up cards reading "Aaron Schumacher, independent philosopher and casual adventurer," I am not yet inclined to change my practically printed profession.  The past two weeks spent cataloguing the increasingly improbable will continue forward as research continues.  Consider this an initial report.<br>    Chung Hun Soo took me to The Black Hole after predictably failing to move me in to an already-occupied apartment.  I had been staying on the very outskirts of town, at The Central Hotel, and Mr Chung had planned to move me in on Saturday to an apartment that he knew would be occupied until Sunday.  He was so upset when it didn't work.  I could feel it in his driving.<br>    My new coworkers had already told me stories about the "love hotels" that our boss had initially put them up in, and I guessed that Mr Chung would not take the other new teacher and I back to the Central.  But even with some idea what fruit his frustration would bear, I was absolutely incredulous as I clutched precariously arranged luggage against the incline of a steep and narrow road flanked with vegetables, when I heard Mr Chung pronounce every syllable of the Korean spelling.<br>    "It's called the black hole?"<br>    I readjusted my understanding of the universe to allow this.  Here among the dingy old farm women's street market was a nine-story hotel.  From the outside it rose up like an off-kilter step pyramid painted navy blue.  Every subsequent floor was a bit smaller.  I doubt, however, that rooms below the seventh floor were much bigger than mine.<br>    Walker, the other teacher, waited in my room while his was cleaned.  I suppose it was good that they would clean his room.  Regardless, I left him and the single provided condom next to my bed to go visit a friend in another suburb of Seoul, not too far away by metro.  By this time in the day it felt very good to be moving on my own again.<br>    Here are a few of the components that tile to become every Korean street: public computer gaming labs, crane games with various nonsense to try and grab, and huge tanks of seafood that you can have killed and cooked on sight.  Dan showed me that the last two can be one and the same.<br>    "You've got to see the lobster machine!"<br>    For a five hundred won coin you can have three attempts at catching a live lobster by dropping a motorized clutching metal hand into a tub.  Ordinarily I think fishing games are nothing like fun, but this one actually satisfies the definition of fishing, all within a meter cube box.  Something like a motel called The Black Hole, your mind has some trouble comprehending the existence of this box, and part of the response is amusement.<br></p>
