# Thought is not a monolith

Any particular argument can in principle be formalized in a particular
system of assumptions and inference rules, but flexibility in level of
formality and use of different systems for different arguments is both
practical and inevitable.

The plurality of systems of thought is particularly transparent in
mathematics, where for example to know whether a statement of geometry
is correct one must first ask which system of geometry is determining
correctness. In one system the interior angles of a triangle always
add to two right angles, but in another this is not the case.
Conflicting results do not imply cognitive dissonance when each is
correct in its respective system. The ability to choose among systems
is a great power.

Mathematical formal systems are in a sense complete articulations, but
they are also generally quite verbose and not necessarily easily
understood. In another sense, by their very self-completeness formal
systems close themselves off from meaning beyond their symbols,
requiring something beyond themselves and in that sense being
incomplete.

In practice, it is rare to completely formalize an argument. Ideally,
the nearest acceptable assumptions and clearest steps of reasoning are
described clearly and expediently. Often, assumptions and reasoning
are just implied, or even elided. There may be more or less
uncertainty in excavating the underlying argument.

Natural language is an imperfect tool. Spoken, written, or purely in
thought, a statement of natural language is a phenomon not purely tied
to any particular semantics. As in the Shannonâ€“Weaver model of
communication, language is a signal, and it is the only part of the
system that we have meaningfully direct access to. Everyone speaks
their own constantly-evolving language. Much of philosophy can be seen
as postcards from Sisyphus visiting the ruins of Babel.

Meaning is built based on language, but the meaning cannot be directly
inspected. Reading my own notes, I may find that now they mean nothing
to me, or I may otherwise understand them differently from what I was
understanding as I wrote them. It isn't clear that it is possible to
understand a statement twice in exactly the same way. In the case of
communication with others, the best we can hope for is roughly
compatible understandings.

In stimulating meanings, even if not always perfectly identical,
natural language is a powerful tool. By relying on shared
understandings, which can be built, natural language can be very
efficient and effective. Very often, it is the best option. Care
should be taken to avoid the extremes of its weaknesses.
