# Thoughts on a computer playing Jeopardy

<p>IBM made a computer that can play Jeopardy really well, as reported <a href="http://www.eweek.com/c/a/IT-Infrastructure/IBMs-Watson-Supercomputer-Beats-Humans-in-Jeopardy-Practice-Match-296135/">here</a>.<br><br><br>On the one hand, of course a computer should be great at trivia. &#160;It can remember everything you put in it, perfectly. &#160;Computers are really good at remembering trivia.<br><br>On the other hand, it's impressive that they've got the language processing working well enough to successfully match the questions to the answers. &#160;Language processing is hard for computers.<br><br>But even if this computer can beat people at Jeopardy, as computers have for some time beat people at chess, I'm not sure I should be that impressed. &#160;The computers are definitely achieving ends that humans achieve, but the means are so clearly contrived and mechanical. &#160;The computers don't do anything that I would call thinking.<br><br><br>There is a divide, I guess, in AI:<br><br>A: Build a system by whatever means, usually explicitly oriented toward an outcome, or goal performance. &#160;The Jeopardy computer does this, although it does do it by a pretty neat unstructured data analysis method using Apache, Java, and C++, of all things. &#160;Chess computers do this. &#160;This approach is usually pretty quick to achieve some results, and can scale to really good results in specific applications (chess, Jeopardy). &#160;But it doesn't transfer to other domains. &#160;I can't deny the usefulness of this approach, but it's just not very interesting to me. &#160;It's like house painting. &#160;It gets a job done.<br><br>B: Build a general system, possibly based on human biology or general ideas about thinking (neural networks, etc.). &#160;This kind of system has a harder time excelling at specific tasks like playing chess, but has more promise of future flexibility, and of becoming a kind of intelligence comparable to what humans have. &#160;It may be a long shot, but I think this stuff is more interesting, and I think it is more likely to be really cool in the future.<br><br><br>So, like the chat program that fooled people into thinking it was human by deliberately making spelling mistakes, things that are explicitly programmed by humans may achieve short-term success in special case situations, but are not the right path to real advances in AI.</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2011/01/thoughts-on-computer-playing-jeopardy.html).*
