# Story-time with Aaron: Part 6

<div>
<span class="Apple-style-span">(<a href="http://planspace.blogspot.com/2010/04/story-time-with-aaron-part-5.html">Part 5</a>) (<a href="http://planspace.blogspot.com/2010/09/story-time-with-aaron-part-7.html">Part 7</a>)<br><br>---<br><br></span><div><span class="Apple-style-span"><span class="Apple-style-span">Author's note: Jesus' name should always be read with the Catholic Church Midwestern American English accent, except when Jesus himself says it. When Jesus says his name it sounds like a first term high school Spanish language student attempting the correct pronunciation, but not very seriously.</span></span></div>
<div><span class="Apple-style-span"><br>In the parking lot, death gets shotgun this time. Jesus is the youngest, so he sits in the middle seat in back. Take the right window. Aaron sits on the left side and tries to talk to Lily as she drives. There goes the bagel shop where Lily's sister works sometimes.<br><br>Jesus makes an important announcement.<br><br>"Aw, crap. I lost my wallet somewhere, guys," he says.<br><br>The Scrabble can be put on hold. "Should I turn around?" asks Lily.<br><br>"No," says Jesus slowly. "I'm not even sure it's at school. Maybe I left it at the gas station? Dang. I don't know."<br><br>"What's the last place you know you had it?"<br><br>"I bought a sandwich at the gas station, but I don't know after that. I was kicking around a ball at the park for a while too, and then I had Tai Chi class at two," says Jesus.<br><br>"It's always in the last place you look," says Aaron.<br><br>Death laughs. "Right! Let's make a list of all the places you think you should look, and then go to the last one. It'll save time!"<br><br>For some people the boundary between joke and sincerity is not clearly defined. Jesus offers his preference schedule. "Uh; I would check the gas station first, and the locker room, and then the park, I guess," he says, slightly confused.<br><br>Aaron is grinning. "Well then! Let's go to the park and get your wallet!"<br><br>"What park is it though?"<br><br>"It was the park next to that school, across from the end of Daisy and Macintosh," says Jesus.<br><br>"Where?" asks Death.<br><br>"You know Airport? Daisy and Macintosh run into Airport, and that block across from there is a little park." Jesus moves his hands as he explains, but nobody in particular sees his gestures.<br><br>Lily stops fiddling with the radio. "Are you guys done?" This is a rhetorical question. "I'm just going to go to the gas station. You mean the Seven-Eleven over by the Greck building, right?"<br><br>Jesus is relieved. "Yeah," he says. "That's where I got lunch."<br><br>Lily wasn't able to find anything very good on the radio.<br><br>At the gas station, Jesus can't find his wallet. "The guy says he didn't see anything," he says, coming back to the car.<br><br>"Don't the have some slogan with 'heaven' in it?" wonders Aaron. "'Seven-Eleven: Just like heaven.' It seems like they should have a slogan like that."<br><br>"What are you even talking about?" says Lily.<br><br>"You know, it used to be you could buy dry ice here," says Death. "I got some for Halloween one year. But they don't sell it any more."<br><br>"How about atomic bombs?"<br><br>"Like I said before," says Aaron, "It's always in the last place you look. Are you ready to go to the park yet, Lily?"<br><br>"Shut up, Aaron." Lily is a little amused.</span></div>
</div>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2010/04/story-time-with-aaron-part-6.html).*
