# Things I say a lot.

<p>My Korean friend, who also teaches English, asked me to make a list of 30 common classroom English expressions.  So here I go, listing those things I keep saying and saying, all the time, during my classes:<br><br>1) Hello!<br>2) How are you? / How was your weekend? / What are you doing over the weekend?  (Making weak conversation while checking homework.)<br>3) Sit down.  / Don't do that. / Stop doing that.  (Also used with "Why don't you ~" and "How about you ~".)<br>4) We're on page XX.  / Let's go to page XX.<br>5) Let's ~ (read, look at the picture, grade the tests, etc.)<br>6) Get your X out. / Get out your X.  (red pen, storybook, workbook)<br>7) What does X mean?  (usually rhetorically, to introduce some vocabulary explanation)<br>8) Who/What is/are he/she/it/they (etc.)?  (checking whether people know the pronoun referenece)<br>9) Why do you think [something]?  (checking comprehension)<br>10) Okay, ~.  (used to introduce pretty much everything I say)<br>11) Yes? / Yes, [name]? (calling on someone to answer/ask a question)<br>12) Any questions?  (there usually aren't, even when there should be)<br>13) One, two, three! (Starting off some reading/repetition in unison.)<br>14) Break time!  / Let's take a break.  (At the start of break time.)<br>15) Let's come back.  (at the end of break; this might not commonly used by others)<br>16) I'll be right back.  (Leaving the room before class starts.)<br>17) Pretty good.  (Of an answer, I guess; my student told me I say this a lot - probably when it isn't really.)<br>18) That isn't English.  / People won't understand you if you say X. / Nobody says X.  (Of some Konglish, like "PC room", "sharp" for pencil, etc.)<br>19) Hahaha!  (Laughter; again, according to my students.)<br>20) Let's have class.  (at the start of class; kind of weird, actually)<br>21) Shall we take a test? Yes we shall.  (I was a little surprised to hear myself say this too.  I think I say strange stuff sometimes because it's almost like talking to myself, when student listening comprehension is low.)<br>22) [name] is here.  (While checking attendance.)<br>23) I need to check your homework.  Please have your homework out so I can check it.<br>24) Good luck.  Do your best.  (At the beginning of a test.)<br>25) Not exactly.  /  Almost.  (When an answer is wrong.)<br>26) Are you okay?  (When a student is not working or whatever.)<br>27) [student name] (When calling on people to read or whatever.)<br>28) Who's got the first one?  (first answer; etc.)<br>29) Thank you.  /  Thank you very much.<br>30) &#48148;&#51060;!</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2010/02/things-i-say-lot.html).*
