# Conversion of Guelph energy to mass (p=0.049)

_This is a short story I wrote in the second half of 2022. The image is from [Dezgo](https://dezgo.com/)._


![a tiny old wooden waterwheel moves gently with the water in a slow creak passing through a verdant forest](image.png)


“Are you sure you really want to know?” Verona asked, looking up from
her book. The wind off the ocean had slowed but the beach was still
cooling as evening approached. The sky was all pinks and purples now.
It was a pleasant, easy day.

“Maybe it doesn't even mean anything…” Adam finished pulling his
fingers through the sand one last time before turning with a smile.
“Are you hungry?”

They had both recently detected a faint smell of grilling nearby. Soon
they would go to dinner at one of the resort's restaurants, before
retiring to their room. This required very little coordination. They
enjoyed being in sync.

Verona grinned as she got up and began to shake out her towel. “Are
you going to say it doesn't mean anything in your dissertation?” Adam
was picking up the vanilla sun lotion and a few empty bottles.

“If I come out and say it, will there be any subtext left?” They were
both happy. “Besides, I need space for all the null results and
extended caveats.”

---

It had been a surprise when brain-scan research led to a breakthrough
in understanding dark matter.

A new type of live brain scanner was designed with a calibration point
that was expected to read zero. This zero-point check worked fine for
some people. But for others, there was something there, where there
should have been nothing. The research team at the University of
Guelph initially called it strangely-interacting energy.

Particle physicists took an interest in this new zero-point
measurement and before long showed, to everyone's surprise, that it
was detecting one end of a spectrum that was somehow perpendicular to
everything that had been measured before. At one end was the
strangely-interacting energy. At the other end was
strangely-interacting mass: dark matter. The whole phenomenon came to
be called Guelph field.

The way Guelph energy interacts with regular matter is like a
paddle-wheel in water, if it's always impossible to tell whether the
water is pushing the wheel or the wheel is pushing the water. It
doesn't matter whether you see just one or the other or both; the
motion is the same.

The apparatus that makes it possible to observe Guelph energy is
called a McKinsey device. Zero-point measurement was sufficiently
paradigm-shifting that physicists sometimes almost forget that
McKinsey brain scanners are state of the art for their intended task
as well. As for Guelph mass, it is only observable by its gravity.

McKinsey scanners are expensive, but they're a good deal cheaper than
particle accelerators.

---

“When I was a kid, she would take me canoeing sometimes, just for
fun.” Adam stood near the yellow wall of the funeral home while
unfamiliar extended family milled about slowly.

Verona had met Adam's great-grandmother only a handful of times in the
last few years. “Will she be speaking?”

A tiny smile flickered across Adam's face. “She was old-fashioned. She
said her family was better than any copy of her would be.” Adam
sighed.

“Do you think she was Guelph positive?” Verona was trying to bring
Adam to a friendly and familiar topic. She was surprised when he
looked away into the distance for a while before replying.

“Sorry; I feel like I don't have a lot of room to think right now.”
Adam paused again.

Verona answered for him. “I bet she was. I know everybody always says
so. She was so special to you all. She must have been, right? Just
like I feel like I must be, and you must be.” Verona squeezed Adam's
hand.

“I don't know. I didn't expect to feel like this.” Adam continued to
search for what to say. “I'm almost glad there isn't a copy; I think
it would be harder with one here.”

---

At first, Guelph energy wasn't found anywhere outside biological human
brains. It has never been observed in dog brains, or dolphin brains,
or cuttlefish brains. It has never been observed in fruit trees, or
vacuum, or radioactive materials.

It would be a perfect answer to the question of what makes humans
different from all other creatures, except that not all humans are
Guelph positive. Measurements are, however, consistently binary:
either it's there or it isn't.

Guelph energy is detected in about half of people. When it is
detected, the signal is strongest in the cerebral cortex and fades
quickly at the brain stem. Repeated zero-point measurements are
consistent across the life span, until death.

Guelph energy has never been observed in a dead brain. There are two
main theories for why this is. The dissipation theory holds that the
energy is no longer attached to the brain and radiates outward to
unobservable levels. The conversion theory holds that the Guelph
energy changes state, becoming undetectable amounts of dark matter.

It isn't clear why Guelph energy should have an affinity for human
brains in the first place, or why this should change at death. No
experiment has been devised to resolve the debate between the
dissipation and conversion theories, or any of the many less plausible
alternative theories.

---

“I think the least realistic part was just that so many labs would let
him use their gear.” Adam and Verona didn't always like the same
content, but they had found a movie called “Check Again” in which a
man becomes obsessed with getting McKinsey zero-point tests, until he
finds love in Greenland.

“It's more fun if you suspend your disbelief, you know,” Verona
replied. It was a familiar conversation. “Or, if you want to nitpick,
just think of the expense!”

“You're okay with the core concept?” asked Adam, relaxing back into
the couch expansively.

“People have all sorts of beliefs about Guelph. It's easy to forget
how many people really take it so seriously. But that's not what the
movie was about! It didn't matter what the tests said; it's the same
old story of a lonely guy who thinks proving himself will fill that
empty space.”

Adam leaned over with a smile to kiss her.

---

In a Turing identity test, an examiner converses with two entities,
one human and one computer. As in a traditional Turing test, the
examiner seeks to determine which is human. The additional wrinkle is
that the human and computer are both claiming to be the same person.
The examiner must make a choice, so if the human and computer are
exactly equivalent, the examiners will be right in about half of
tests.

There are many types of brain scanners. They vary in fidelity, but
they all produce digital versions of a mind. Most techniques in
current use make copies that reliably pass Turing identity tests with
loved ones. All have no effect on Guelph field, except for McKinsey
scanners.

For years it was only known that if an individual who had tested
Guelph positive was subsequently copied using a McKinsey scanner, that
person's brain would afterward test negative.

A particularly well-funded professor decided to have her lab
demonstrate that a computer running a copy was as Guelph-free as every
other non-brain thing. The demonstration did not go as expected, and
turned instead into a series of revolutionary papers.

Work on explaining the mobility of Guelph energy led to
reconsideration of Kantor's development of information mechanics. That
field had moved for a while fruitlessly in the direction of digital
physics, but was revitalized by the problem of brains, computers, and
Guelph field.

The stability of computer-linked Guelph energy is not well
characterized but seems to depend on particulars of operating system
and low-level hardware implementations. In particular, copying a copy
has never led to observing two distinct Guelph loci. This has led some
to speculate that there should be a “McKinsey computer,” but no
concrete proposal for what this would mean in practice has yet
surfaced.

---

“Will I ever get to meet Professor Loi?” Verona joined Adam at a small
white table in the community cafeteria that they liked. They sat with
steaming bowls of phở between them.

“It's getting harder for me to get even my usual scheduled time with
him. He's been insisting on talking to himself more recently, spawning
more copies and then keeping them all around, for analysis, he says.”

“I thought you said he was already way over budget?”

“He is, but he won't work with any of his PhD students unless he gets
to work on his own research. All the copies talk to each other; he's
like a union unto himself and none of the universities he's at can
afford to lose him.”

“Weird! Do you know what he's working on?”

“I can barely get him to explain what I'm working on. But hey,” Adam
raised his water glass, “this morning he said the hardware simulation
tests look good and we should be able to start recruiting subjects
soon.”

---

Guelph field has an obvious connection to gravity, via dark matter,
but as with general relativity, the relationship between Guelph field
and quantum mechanics is unresolved. The “zero-point” of Guelph
detection is not related to zero-point quantum energy. This hasn't
stopped all manner of popular misconceptions from flourishing, despite
typically having as much grounding as saying Guelph field is elf
energy because of the rhyme.

Among the most persistent misinformation is that there is no Guelph
energy. The allegedly quantum basis for this claim hinges on the
mistaken belief that readings from McKinsey devices are quantum
observer effects based on nothing more than stochastic noise. These
theories generally try to explain the persistent patterns observed
with some appeal to entanglement over time or even more incoherent
ideas about beliefs influencing observations.

Contributing to distrust of Guelph theory is the subject-observer
isolation that is an intrinsic part of all McKinsey procedures. The
person inside a McKinsey device gets no indication that it's working.
More than that: After a procedure, the person who leaves a McKinsey
device has no memory of what happened inside. The effect is analogous
to some forms of anesthesia, or having a concussion, and is absolutely
essential for the safety of the subject's brain.

---

“Come back! I see a blue blaze down this way,” Verona called out to
Adam. He turned and walked through the same dappled light again,
stepping on the same dry pine needles.

“This is why you should lead,” said Adam. “You're so good at finding
things! Maybe you can help find participants for the study too?”

“Are you really so surprised that people don't want to get
de-Guelphed?” Verona stopped to look at a patch of tiny white flowers
at the side of the trail.

“Who's to say mass isn't just as good as energy? Anyway nobody would
know the difference if we didn't tell them their initial test
results.” He looked up into the trees. “We'll get the subjects. People
are curious. It's really the regulations that slow everything down.”
Adam paused for a moment. “I got approval to run the protocol on
myself too.”

“Oh! You'll finally find out your status. Won't that be weird for
you?”

“In the end I know rationally it doesn't make a difference one way or
another.” Adam stopped to get something out of his boot, found
nothing, and put his boot back on. “I know you said you don't want to
be in the study, but if you want we can get you in for just the
initial test. We'll have the equipment for the day.”

“You want me there for moral support, huh? Sure. I wonder if people’s
eyes will look different, before and after.” The two walked on, up
stone steps that could have been natural or could have been put in,
matching the pace of the slowly shifting air.

---

It is often repeated that a brain is a quantum computer that simulates
a brain. This is true in the same sense that a hammer is a quantum
computer that simulates a hammer. All matter is quantum, but this
doesn't imply that anything in particular is endowed with mysterious
properties on that basis.

Grover's search algorithm, number-theoretic results, uncomputation:
none of the uniquely quantum aspects of quantum computation are
particularly relevant to brain mechanics. Apart from some aspects of
parallelism, most components of brain simulation are more efficiently
implemented with traditional computers.

A quantum computer capable of running even a low-fidelity copy of a
human mind may never be technically feasible, but there is no reason
to expect that it would behave differently from a conventional
computer. A quantum computer is no more like a McKinsey device than a
regular digital computer.

---

“It's darker with my eyes open!” When Verona spoke, their synchronized
breathing was no longer the dominant sound.

“And my senses were just starting to experience deprivation,” Adam
replied, with just a hint of a chuckle.

“What's the point of us being in here at the same time if we aren't
going to interact?”

“When I was booking this, the guy said that half the time there's only
one person using these two-person tanks. That's why it's such a good
deal when two people use one at the same time.”

“Oh.” Verona began to imagine all the kinds of lives that would
include floating naked in isolation.

“But yeah,” Adam replied again, “the dark is wild. I can almost forget
whether my eyes are open or closed. Some people say they get
hallucinations.”

Another topic came to Verona. “You really set it up so that we'll see
our results at the same time?”

“Hmm? Oh, right. Yeah, it's all my code. No problem. We'll find out
together.”

---

In popular culture, Guelph theory has stirred the pot but not improved
the flavor, according to most. The problem of inclusion dominates
discussion.

The binary status of Guelph energy, combined with the relative
inaccessibility of legitimate testing, is taken by bigots for the
elaboration of hateful theories. The formula is that their preferred
group is Guelph positive while those they despise are negative (or,
more rarely, the reverse) and this can justify all manner of
atrocities.

The inclusion problem immediately confronts most philosophical
appropriations of Guelph theory. If Guelph energy is a mechanism for
free will, then why do only some people have it? Certainly this does
not resolve any problems in ethics.

To philosophers in the tradition of Dennett, Guelph energy is a red
herring, a distraction from anything that matters. The positive and
negative (unfortunate terms, really) can only be discriminated by
McKinsey device, not by introspection or any other behavior. Having a
second kind of thing in the brain changes nothing.

And since Guelph energy is still a phenomenon within the domain of
science, deterministic and described by equations, some look further
to a “third kind” that might finally explain everything that Guelph
theory does not.

For most, Guelph energy is just another mysterious part of the world,
like aurora and dreams and microwaves.

---

“I love you,” said Adam into a microphone. They saw each other through
video monitors. Verona couldn't move her head, but every emotion
pulsed through her expression with the saccades of her eyes.

“Not like this,” she said. “I want to remember. Stop the experiment
and we can talk face to face.” Energy reflected off her eyes, into a
camera, through wires, off a screen, into Adam's eyes.

“It's already started,” said Adam. True to his word, he had programmed
the system to run without showing results, and it was running now.
Nobody used the emergency stop. What had been intended would be done.

Adam wasn't usually a gambler. But to ensure his experiment had
sufficient power to demonstrate the stimulated conversion of Guelph
energy to mass, he needed every Guelph positive participant he could
get. Between Adam and Verona, in expectation there was one subject.
The decision was already made in code. If he wasn't positive and she
was, she would join him in his doctoral experiment after all. Surely
she’d be okay with it. She knew how important this was. Professor Loi
was sure it was the right decision.

Whatever was happening in there now, he would tell her everything
afterward. The code was honest. There were no secrets between them.

---

The largest religions have not changed policies regarding science and
have as much to say about Guelph theory as they do about electrolysis.
This does not prevent the religious from having their own beliefs on
the subject.

A few small religions, mostly for the super rich, admit only those who
have tested positive. Some claim a connection to Calvinism, and that
Guelph energy is evidence of predestined salvation.

Much more common, relatively, are religions that will certify Guelph
positive status without testing. These religions hold that their
certifications are more reliable than tests with a McKinsey device, so
they have no trouble resolving the odd contradictory result. Several
of these also claim a connection to Calvinism.

Neither religions that test before admittance nor those that certify
after joining seem to turn many people away, and data on Guelph energy
from any of them is generally not considered reliable by the
scientific community.

---

“The phở tastes the same as always.” This is what Adam would have said
he was thinking, had anyone asked. He sat alone at the same small
white table. Phở had been their favorite.

The phở was hot. The noodles were chewy. The broth was salty. Sauce
added sweetness and a touch of sour. Umami-flavored protein floated at
the top.

Adam had never felt more alone.

As usual, he was surrounded by community here. So many people he
didn't know. He overheard but didn't understand snippets of Chinese at
a nearby table. He could turn on translation and join them, some day,
but for now it was a relief that the sounds died at his ears.

The lights were always so bright here, like an examination room. Like
the inside of a McKinsey chamber.

Adam tried to remember everything about Verona. What had it been that
made her so special? What was it that was gone, without her?

Had anyone asked, Adam would have said he was thinking that he'd never
know anyone like her again.
