# PBS "The Human Spark"

<p>So the iTunes store started renting nonfiction TV shows and I downloaded and watched PBS's "<a href="http://www.pbs.org/wnet/humanspark/">The Human Spark</a>," a three-part series hosted by Alan Alda, that guy from M*A*S*H. &#160;The show was trying to get at "What is the nature of human uniqueness," which is something I think about a good deal.<br><br><br>Naturally "language" is the biggest answer, but maybe not the only or fundamental one. &#160;One interesting thing was that they linked, as I've seen before but hadn't been thinking about recently, other symbolism and art with the symbolism of language. &#160;So ancient pierced shells used as decorative beads could have been worn symbolically as markers of same-grouped-ness, expanding the cooperative groups of humans beyond immediate family or whatever, allowing for trade, etc.<br><br>This reminded me of the Cosmides and Tooby paper "<a href="http://www.pnas.org/content/98/26/15387.full">Can race be erased?</a>" that showed that clothing coalitional cues strongly influence people's ideas of group belonging.<br><br><br>Another interesting thing was what one of the scientists on the show said: "I don't think you can separate society from technology." &#160;He was talking about the way society, communication and sharing, spreads technology from the inventor to other users. &#160;And now technology spreads people's social communication etc. &#160;The social network and all that. &#160;An interesting quote.<br><br><br>Another cool thing, which I may have heard before but forgotten about, is this: Dogs understand and follow human pointing, but wolves do not - even if they are raised like dogs. &#160;It seems that the ages of domestication have bread an understanding of pointing into dogs. &#160;Pretty crazy. &#160;It's a kind of symbolization, like beads, language, etc.<br><br><br>Overall, the three shows are a fairly entertaining introduction to a bunch of neat stuff, but necessarily not very comprehensive or anything like that. &#160;And it's a little weird how they try to make Alda some sort of "star" of a documentary. &#160;Whatever.</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2010/11/pbs-human-spark.html).*
