# Make everything into Roth IRA

Retirement accounts are surprisingly flexible. Rules meant to keep
high earners from making certain contributions and to discourage
withdrawals before age 59½ can largely be worked around. Everything
can and often should get put into a Roth IRA.

![table](table.png)

<!--
diagram:
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lv1_2hIiCz4q23_Siprsgc9p6HuOAyg48Jw0dHDsBgw/edit

original sketch post:
https://www.linkedin.com/posts/ajschumacher_andre-nader-do-i-have-this-right-activity-7324466493012795392-BaJe?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAAApS5jEBN0AnaiwMHLjFdiDNwOzHJdekDW8
-->


All these accounts are about avoiding taxes, to encourage you to save
for retirement. “Traditional” accounts can be funded with “pre-tax
dollars,” and then you pay taxes when you move money out. Money you
put into “Roth” accounts has already been taxed, so when you take it
out it's “tax free.”

Traditional accounts can _also_ be funded with after-tax dollars. If
your 401k plan allows it, you can contribute after-tax dollars beyond
the usual limit. This might seem pointless, except that you can then
_convert_ those contributions to Roth. This allows you to put quite a
lot of money into a Roth 401k, and is sometimes called “mega backdoor
Roth 401k.” _(orange arrow in diagram)_

People with [high incomes][] aren't allowed to contribute directly to
Roth IRAs (Individual Retirement Accounts) and (with slightly
different [limitations][]) can't deduct contributions to a Traditional
IRA. But anyone can contribute after-tax dollars to a Traditional IRA
and then convert those contributions to Roth. This is sometimes called
“backdoor Roth IRA.” _(part of purple arrow in diagram)_

[high incomes]: https://www.schwab.com/ira/roth-ira/contribution-limits
[limitations]: https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/ira-deduction-limits

After you've left an employer, you can convert your 401k accounts to
corresponding IRAs without tax implications. Mega backdoor Roth 401k
may be convertible to Roth IRA even while still employed. _(green
arrows in diagram)_

You can also convert a Traditional 401k or Traditional IRA to a Roth
IRA. You pay tax on the converted amount. _(blue arrow, part of purple
arrow in diagram)_ You can control the amounts of the conversions so
that you smooth your taxable income across years rather than having
large single conversion events that spike your annual income—and tax
rate.

Roth IRAs are particularly nice because they let you withdraw
contributions any time without penalty, which makes sense since they
were already taxed. In the case of roll-overs (conversions) you have
to wait five years before withdrawing penalty-free, but that can still
be years before age 59½, meaning money is not locked away to nearly
the same extent. Only investment gains are subject to penalty for
withdrawal before 59½. Additionally, Roth accounts are not subject to
Required Minimum Distributions starting around age 73 the way that
Traditional accounts are.

There are other exceptions to waiting until age 59½ (like if you leave
your job at 55 or older, or if you set up Substantially Equal Periodic
Payments under 72t) but you hardly need them.


### Example: $77k tax-advantaged in 2025

The common employer-sponsored 401k has a $23,500 limit on total
pre-tax (“Traditional”) and Roth (after tax) employee contributions,
with a $70,000 total cap on employee and employer contributions.
Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) are limited to $7,000 in
contributions per year. (“Catch-up” adjustments increase these numbers
somewhat for people 50 and up.)

The choice of Traditional or Roth depends on your tax rate now
compared to when you expect to use the money, and there are
[calculators][] that can help you compare. If you are in a high tax
bracket currently, putting pre-tax money in a Traditional account can
help spread your income across years and lower the total effective tax
rate you pay.

[calculators]: https://www.citizensbank.com/investing-and-wealth-management/products-services-and-calculators/financial-calculators/roth-401k-vs-traditional-401k-calculator.aspx

Imagine a high-income individual under 50 who contributes $23,500
pre-tax to their 401k, reducing their tax for the current year. Say
they get 50% of that contribution matched by their employer ($11,750)
so the total pre-tax 401k contribution for the year is $35,250. After
they leave their employer, they can choose to convert that Traditional
401k to Roth IRA, paying tax when they make the conversion, and the
converted amount is withdrawable without penalty after five years.

Since the annual limit is $70,000, they can still contribute $34,750
more in after-tax dollars and convert that to Roth 401k. This can be
converted to Roth IRA at any point and the converted amount is
withdrawable without penalty after five years.

They can also contribute $7,000 (in after-tax dollars) toward a
Traditional IRA and then convert that to Roth, and the converted
amount is withdrawable without penalty after five years.

So in one year, this person has gotten $77,000 into tax-advantaged
retirement accounts, and the majority of it can be withdrawn without
penalty after just five years, regardless of their age.


---

I am not a financial advisor, this is just my current understanding of
how these things work, please consult an expert before doing anything.
(And please tell me if I have anything wrong!)
