# Goals or whatever

<p>So I was on a stationary bike at the gym, and I started thinking about goals.  So here are some goals!<br><br><br>BBOYING GOALS<br><br>Korea Super B-Boy Championship (KSBC)<br><br>It has a silly name, but it's the most fun, my favorite, semi-underground, bboy jam in Korea.  It's a 1v1 at Realization crew studio, all free, and I can't see any reason for them to do it, other than the organizer just being a cool guy.  Anyway they have it planned out like this.  Each "season" is 8 events long.  The winner of each of those 1v1 battles goes on to a great 8 event battle to be crowned "king of ksbc".  And then they do four seasons, and the four kings battle at the end of it all to be "king of kings".  I've entered a couple times but I haven't made it past top 8.  My friend Matt just won battle 7 of season one, and now season one is over and he'll be in the great 8 event soon.<br><br>So there are still 3 more seasons, which means 32 more one-vs-one battles for me to enter.  So here is what I'm thinking.<br><br>In season one I made it to the top 8 at least once, maybe more (I don't remember and it would be annoying to go check old videos).  So okay good.<br><br>KSBC SEASON TWO GOAL: make top 4<br><br>KSBC SEASON THREE GOAL: make top 2<br><br>KSBC SEASON FOUR GOAL: make top 1<br><br>Of course if I win before season four, that would be cool too.<br><br>Sub-goal: Make a new battle set for every KSBC battle that I enter.  Which means I'll have 32 new sets?  DAMN!  &#12619;&#12619;<br><br><br>KOREAN LANGUAGE GOALS<br><br>Complete the Yonsei Korean Language Program through level six.<br><br>Test to level six on the TOPIK test.<br><br>Be generally pretty kick-ass at Korean.<br><br>Sub-goal: take that other test with Anthony, whenever that is.<br><br><br>JOB / WORKING / MONEY-TYPE GOALS<br><br>Keep doing my current job.  Pay off all my debt.  Debt sucks.  Pay it off!  &#54868;&#51060;&#54021;!  Okay.</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2010/03/goals-or-whatever.html).*
