# In which I decide to write a novel, starting tomorrow

<p>For some time, I've wanted to write a novel. &#160;Or maybe I've wanted to have written a novel. &#160;Anyway, the idea of writing and then having written a novel seems cool to me, despite the glut of novels and the questionable worth of any and all of them. &#160;But I've read a lot of novels, so maybe I'll just write one, thought me.<br><br>And I thought about doing that <a href="http://www.nanowrimo.org/">National Novel-Writing Month</a> thing. &#160;In fact I read the book on that thing. And for that they have you doing 2,000 words per day, aka more time than I'm going to spare on a typical day. &#160;I'm not doing writing full-time. &#160;I'm not even doing writing NaNoWriMo-time.<br><br>And I started a sort of series of connected short scenes that could possibly develop into some sort of novel, the one about the kids who nuke Jerusalem, but each individual scene takes a while to write, and I did like eight of them but haven't gone back to it in months.<br><br>So on the train today I was thinking, if I just knew what to write at each point of the story, I could do a tiny little bit every day and then in the end it would be all done. &#160;But how to plot out that whole story and break it down into tiny enough pieces?<br><br>The solution I have arrived at is this: I will write a novel called "Minute." &#160;It starts at 7:00AM when the main character, Aaron (a fictional composite character based on myself) hears his alarm go off. &#160;Every day I will write about only what happens in the next minute of Aaron's day. &#160;If Aaron is around until 10PM, that's 900 minutes. &#160;If I write 100 words for every minute, that's 90,000 words, which is a good-size novel. &#160;And of course it takes 900 days to write - some two and a half years. &#160;I'm not too worried about there being some big plot. &#160;It's just a day, minute by minute. &#160;It's kind of like that guy who took a picture of himself once a day for a long time. &#160;Sort of. &#160;And I can publish the next minute every day online, which motivates me to write anyway.<br><br>I think this is the plan.</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2011/02/in-which-i-decide-to-write-novel.html).*
