# Progress beyond radical skepticism

Radical skepticism claims that nothing is knowable, but such a claim
is not itself knowable. The solution is to remove all claims, and then
choose to build.

The traditional argument for radical skepticism is from doubt. For any
claim, an inconsistent alternative can be introduced that cannot be
disproved, leaving the original claim less than perfectly justified.
In this way, all knowledge can be removed, meaning made uncertain.

An analytic argument for radical skepticism is that if all knowledge
requires sufficient reason, and arguments are neither circular nor
infinite, there can be no knowledge because there is no “first”
knowledge, which would be knowledge without sufficient reason. In this
way, no knowledge can be built up.

The arguments for radical skepticism are good, but it is difficult to
then state exactly what the claim of radical skepticism is.

The so-called Socratic paradox is the statement that “I know that I
know nothing.” Read strictly, this is not a paradox, but simply a
false statement, regardless of whether Socrates knows anything.

If Socrates says instead “I know that I know nothing, including this,”
he has contradicted himself, as he says both that he knows and he
doesn't know. A contradiction cannot constitute knowledge, and
variants like “I am uncertain about everything, including this,” sound
less problematic only superficially.

If Socrates says, “I know that I know nothing, other than this
knowledge of my limitation,“ he is still incorrect. Either he knows
some reason to hold this belief, in which case he knows more than he
says, or he knows without reason, which is not knowledge but
assumption.

The trouble is that if we manage to know anything, then radical
skepticism is falsified. The radical skepticism that makes a claim is
not the true radical skepticism.

The most defensible expression of radical skepticism is silence, and
in this form it is correct. Nothing comes from nothing, and anything
can be doubted.

True radical skepticism is in a sense pre-rational. Even to reason
about radical skepticism requires assuming the ability to reason. Any
thought is outside the pure domain of radical skepticism.

From the primordial void of radical skepticism, thought can grow. At
every stage of this evolution, what is known is contingent on what
developed prior. Every addition is a choice.

Socrates could say, “I assume that I know nothing other than this one
assumption,” but this would be a dead end.
