# Quotes from Frederick W. Kantor

<p>One of the most interesting things to come out of teaching a <a href="http://www.nyas.org/">New York Academy of Sciences</a> after-school math program at Ronald Edmonds middle school in Brooklyn was quite entirely unexpected.<br><br>As I was introduced to people on the first day of the program, some pride was shown by the administrator when she indicated a heavily bearded, wizened old man sitting next to a girl having trouble with fractions or some such thing. Doctor Kantor, she said, who had all those things published in the journals.<br><br>Who?<br><br>The very same Dr. Frederick W. Kantor of Columbia University, famous in some circles for originating the field of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_physics">Information Mechanics</a>. (The wiki page is now called Digital Physics; I don't think Dr. Kantor would approve.) The astonishingly low chance of running into an innovative physicist at a New York City public middle school, and then one whose work I find so interesting, was enough to make me think the universe was having a laugh with me.<br><br>I don't always follow everything Dr. Kantor says, but just yesterday after the last of this after-school program's sessions we chatted for a bit and it was really quite enjoyable. Here are two quotes, the second of which is him quoting Chien-Shiung Wu:<br><br>"A theory that tries to explain its assumptions is a tautology."<br>- Fred Kantor<br><br>"They forget that mass is an assumption."<br><a href="http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chien-Shiung_Wu">Madame Wu</a> to Fred Kantor<br><br>Dr. Kantor also spoke of some newer work of his, especially that relating information mechanics and the foundations of mathematics, which I really hope he publishes soon. I'm no expert, but I think information mechanics is a candidate for being a Really Good Idea that people have been neglecting.</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2012/05/quotes-from-frederick-w-kantor.html).*
