# Poor Students

<p>One of my high-level English (as a foreign language) classes had a poem project at the end of class on Tuesday (2010.2.23).  We didn't have a lot of time so I had them form one big group of seven students, and each student wrote one stanza.  The topic was conflicts they have with their parents.  I typed each stanza into the computer to make the finished poem, which makes it easy to put up here.  It's kind of fun.  It doesn't reflect their skill level very well really.  They wrote their parts in under five minutes, totally unassisted, and it was also the last class of the term, last part of the class, and they don't really like poems.  But anyway, here it is!<br><br>Poor Students<br><br>I want more money<br>I am so poor<br>Give me money<br><br>I want to buy more clothes<br>I don’t have enough clothes<br>But my mother doesn’t buy anything<br>I am sad<br><br>When the test scores came out<br>Mom called me and told me to hurry<br>But I want to tell her sorry<br>Because my score is a mess<br>And my mom is getting angry<br>Why do I have to have a good score?<br><br>I hate academies where I have to pay<br>[Academy name] is a place where I have to pay<br>So I hate [Academy name]<br><br>I am not a child<br>My parents interfere with my consumption<br>I can decide logically whether to buy something<br><br>My friend and I played at the theater<br>I spent the night at my friends house<br>We chatted all night while eating snacks<br>Someone’s talking outside<br>What are you thinking about? Study!<br><br>We are students<br>And we study most of the time<br>But parents sometimes seem to forget<br>Study study study<br>Maybe they want us to study our whole lives<br>We are students<br>And sometimes we need fun</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2010/02/poor-students.html).*
