# Math for Good Thinking

<div>
<br>I was listening to <a href="http://www.freakonomics.com/2011/11/23/the-truth-is-out-there%E2%80%A6isn%E2%80%99t-it-a-new-freakonomics-radio-podcast/">this Freakonomics podcast</a>&#160;and they had <a href="http://faculty.psy.ohio-state.edu/peters/">Ellen Peters</a> on. She said:<br><blockquote class="tr_bq">"Numeracy in general, what it should do, is it should help you to&#160;better understand information, first of all, and that kind of&#160;comprehension is sort of a basic building block of decisions across a&#160;variety of domains. But numeracy should also do other things. It&#160;should also help you just simply process the information more&#160;systematically. It should, in general, help you to get to better&#160;decisions that are more in line with the facts."</blockquote>
<br>and I agreed, and felt hopeful about the world, but it was all a setup&#160;for her research conclusion that even or especially people with&#160;higher education have preexisting beliefs that are not affected by&#160;good thinking:<br><blockquote class="tr_bq">"Greater scientific literacy and numeracy were associated with greater&#160;cultural polarization: respondents predisposed by their values to&#160;dismiss climate change evidence became more dismissive, and those&#160;predisposed by their values to credit such evidence more concerned, as&#160;science literacy and numeracy increased."</blockquote>
<br>This is concerning! I would like to believe that my math-teachers colleagues are making students into better&#160;thinkers. I am inclined to hope that hard science majors are less&#160;inclined to be biased by "values" than, say, MBAs, but everybody has&#160;been through high school and ought to be better than this.<br><br>I also recently read "<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Thinking-Fast-Slow-Daniel-Kahneman/dp/0374275637">Thinking, Fast and Slow</a>" by Kahneman, which is&#160;wonderful. He talks about how he helped develop a textbook on rational&#160;thinking that was never adopted by Israel after they finally finished&#160;it. I would like to see a textbook like that. I think that could be&#160;the kind of textbook American schools could use. Do you know of any&#160;resources in this vein?<br><br>And this idea of our-subject-should-make-people-better-thinkers is not&#160;unique to math, of course. It's everywhere, and here's a relevant&#160;selection from a science point of view:<br><blockquote class="tr_bq">"We need a more scientifically literate populace to address the global&#160;challenges that humanity now faces and that only science can explain&#160;and possibly mitigate, such as global warming, as well as to make wise&#160;decisions, informed by scientific understanding, about issues such as&#160;genetic modification."</blockquote>
<br>That's from <a href="http://www.science20.com/carl_wieman/why_not_try_scientific_approach_science_education">an article series</a> that makes the point that unfortunately,&#160;too often the result of science classes is not a really useful better&#160;understanding of science. Good stuff.<br><br>I think that cross-discipline work between math and ELA could be&#160;really valuable too, and is the sort of thing that should probably be&#160;done more. I'm thinking of things like analyzing the logical structure&#160;of an argument, looking at symbolic structures of logical fallacies,&#160;etc. I'm sure there are more good ideas in this realm. Perhaps what I&#160;mean is really better-structured, deeper, more cognitively demanding&#160;ELA.<br><br>I'm also thinking about this in relation to the Common Core&#160;hullabaloo, which I think is generally wonderful - who wouldn't be for&#160;deeper better standards that encourage real understanding of concepts?&#160;But then I see stuff like this:&#160;<a href="http://engageny.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/grade-4-handout.pdf">http://engageny.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/grade-4-handout.pdf</a>&#160;which is supposed to be a *model* of Common Core-aligned work, and it&#160;kind of makes me retch. Am I wrong to retch? Is this an improvement on&#160;what's currently being done?<br><br>I hope the thread connecting all these things I've mentioned is&#160;evident to you! haha What are your thoughts? Are there really great&#160;math (etc.) curricula/texts being used now or being developed?<br>
</div>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2012/03/math-for-good-thinking.html).*
