# Ghostspotting: Belated Halloween musings on epistemology

<span><span class="Apple-style-span">Ren&#233; Descartes, who famously created a whole year of high school math&#160;just trying to get his servant to kill a fly on the ceiling, thought&#160;that the human soul was hanging out in the pineal gland, up in the&#160;middle of your brain.</span><br><span class="Apple-style-span"><br>The pineal gland is smaller than a chickpea, which is what Paul&#160;Giamatti&#8217;s soul looked like in the movie Cold Souls. Descartes would&#160;approve.<br><br>But if you can&#8217;t make hummus out of souls, then ghosts are the next&#160;best thing. The words are even used interchangeably, sometimes. And I&#160;believe in lots of things that I&#8217;ve seen as many times as I&#8217;ve seen&#160;ghosts. Blue whales. Atoms. India.<br><br>Really, we&#8217;d better hope we&#8217;ve got souls somewhere, because otherwise&#160;what is there that makes humans so special compared to Watson and his&#160;digital kin? After you&#8217;ve lost Jeopardy, how long is it before you&#160;lose your job, your girlfriend, and your seat at church?<br><br>And ghosts are nothing! I believe in neutrinos, which are so nearly&#160;invisible that the great state university of Wisconsin uses a whole&#160;cubic kilometer of Antarctic ice just trying to figure out if there&#160;are any coming our way. It&#8217;s called the IceCube Neutrino Telescope.<br><br>I also believe in Einstein&#8217;s theories of relativity, which suggest,&#160;among other things, that if you stay home while I go for a jog, I&#8217;ll&#160;be younger relative to you afterward - and that nothing can go faster&#160;than light, ever.<br><br>This is so deeply believed, that when some European scientists said&#160;that they detected neutrinos going faster than light, a New York&#160;scientist said, on the record, that he would bet his house that they&#160;were wrong.*<br><br>And some people say they&#8217;ve really seen ghosts! I know the senses are&#160;fallible, but I&#8217;m pretty much married to mine, for better or worse.&#160;Would you bet your house that all those people who saw ghosts are&#160;wrong?<br><br>It comes down to how we decide what to believe. Are you less likely to&#160;kick your grandma if you believe she might haunt you? Are you more&#160;likely to support human rights for Ethiopians if you believe they have&#160;immortal souls? Maybe it&#8217;s worth believing.<br><br>But nobody thinks souls are physically hiding out in the base of your&#160;brain these days. What do modern people think of the pineal gland?&#160;People say it keeps you from getting horny as a kid, and it helps you&#160;get to sleep when the sun goes down, but the details are still as&#160;fuzzy as a graveyard Polaroid.<br><br><br>*&#160;<a href="http://news.sciencemag.org/sciencenow/2011/09/neutrinos-travel-faster-than-lig.html" target="_blank">http://news.sciencemag.org/<wbr></wbr>sciencenow/2011/09/neutrinos-<wbr></wbr>travel-faster-than-lig.html</a></span></span>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2011/11/ghostspotting-belated-halloween-musings.html).*
