# Some musings on construction and flashcards...

<p>It seems pretty clear to me that in at least some sense, people need to construct meaning or knowledge or whatever if they are going to really learn it.<br><br>As a mundane, possibly silly example: With the goal of learning Korean, I've started using an iPhone flash-card app that uses some version of graduated recall ideas of memory to maximize effectiveness.<br><br>I make my own flash-cards for this app, based on words that I encounter and want to remember and use.  I enjoy reviewing them and feel like it really helps me to remember them.<br><br>I've tried using pre-made "decks" of the elements, the US state capitals, etc... and they're just dead boring.  I don't care.<br><br>So I was thinking maybe it was because I made the flashcards that I found them more interesting and valuable, but now that I think about it it's probably just that those topics are dull as heck.  But I do lack context for them as well.  I think if I was doing a class with vocab for every lesson, or something like that, I wouldn't mind having pre-made cards that I could just start studying right away.  But I think it would just be for review - it wouldn't do as a first exposure to the material.<br><br>Related wondering: How useful are flashcards for other topics, like science or history, where things don't fall into little card-sized pieces as easily as language vocabulary words?<br><br>The original question that started this ramble is this: "Do people need to construct their learning method, in addition to just what they learn?"  The answer seems to be no, although I do feel more personal investment in the flashcard thing for having chosen it for myself.  I didn't invent flashcards, and I got the idea from a friend who was already using a related program.  Teachers prescribe material and methods, and when they forget that they need to prescribe methods they invent whole classes on "study skills."  I think if a student understands and faithfully follows a prescribed study methodology, that should be sufficient.  They are free to add more on top of it, as always.</p>


*This post was originally hosted [elsewhere](http://planspace.blogspot.com/2011/02/some-musings-on-construction-and.html).*
