# (Audio) Superconvergence, by Metzl

[Metzl][] rubs me the wrong way, a little bit, the way the heros of
LinkedIn do. He's been bio-focused, and still is, but AI is hot so AI
is in the book. He's not wrong, exactly, but it still feels
attention-seeking. [The book][] has very low information density, and
then weirdly his main objective in the end is to get people excited
about regulation.

[Metzl]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jamie_Metzl
[The book]: https://www.hachettebookgroup.com/titles/jamie-metzl/superconvergence/9781643263007/


Metzl advocates for the [Ortega hypothesis][], but mostly because it
fits well with his story of exponential scientific progress: if we
don't have to wait for geniuses, then progress can keep accelerating.
Interesting take.

[Ortega hypothesis]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ortega_hypothesis


He talks a lot about god-like powers, and how we need to regulate
them. He's at pains to say this shouldn't be a global body imposing
rules, but that every country should do things in line with their own
culture and values. Ignoring that requiring countries to regulate
where they wouldn't on their own is already an imposition, this
federated approach only works if we have fairly strong assumptions
about every government's culture and values playing well with what we
think is reasonable. But then he goes on to say that also there should
be international coordination, seemingly with more teeth than the WHO
and so on, so he is arguing for global control in the end as well.


Metzl also believes [fairly strongly][] that COVID-19 was produced by
humans. It makes sense to talk about this in the book because it adds
weight to the discussion of risks, making it not just hypothetical.
This kind of talk always makes me think of the assassination germ idea
in [The Three Body Problem][]. Scary stuff indeed.

[fairly strongly]: https://jamiemetzl.com/origins-of-sars-cov-2/
[The Three Body Problem]: /20200124-three_body_problem_remembrance_of_earths_past/


![cover](cover.jpg)
