# (Audio) Technofeudalism, by Varoufakis

The generous interpretation is that [Varoufakis][] understands that
his [technofeudalism][] is not distinct from capitalism but that since
capitalism's valence is unassailable, perhaps a new word can be more
successfully attacked. (The less generous interpretation is that he
wants credit for a catchy idea.)

[Varoufakis]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yanis_Varoufakis
[technofeudalism]: https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/751443/technofeudalism-by-yanis-varoufakis/


In the book, Varoufakis is personable. He's likeable. His writing is
friendly, and his stories about his father are charming. And he
[likes Star Trek][], which is a great sign of character.

[likes Star Trek]: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2024/04/01/has-capitalism-been-replaced-by-technofeudalism


His technofeudalism refers to the monopolistic market capture,
"moats," and rent-seeking of (mostly) big tech. But this is just
capitalism as usual; [Rockefeller][] would be on board. Thinking of
capitalism as pro-competition is ridiculous.

[Rockefeller]: /20240625-titan_by_chernow/


He says some things about [historical materialism][], which is kind of
interesting. I buy into the importance of technology for enabling big
structural changes to standard of living, for example. (See also:
[Fully Automated Luxury Communism][])

[historical materialism]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Historical_materialism
[Fully Automated Luxury Communism]: /20240921-fully_automated_luxury_communism_by_bastani/


There's also something interesting about separating the exchange or
commodity value vs. the experiential value of things (like work).
Varoufakis says employers profit because they pay commodity price for
workers' time but get the "experiential" (real?) value of their work.
In some sense, a company pays out less than it takes in, if it can,
but I'm not sure this decomposition holds in a meaningful way.
Generally I think Marx focused on labor too much in a similar way to
how physiocrats focused on agriculture (land) too much.


Varoufakis is a little too weird. His use of Amazon Alexa as an
example is unfortunate, given how it's largely a failed technology. He
doesn't seem technologically literate when he talks about ML, which
makes me wonder how good he is in fields I know less about. Like
Bernie, he's concerned about Black Rock/Vanguard/State Street, but I
think this concern is mostly silly. And he's into balancing trade
between nations. (Is this mercantilism?)


So while I'm not with him everywhere, I have a lot of respect for at
least proposing some alternative. (He summarizes his ideas from
_Another Now_.) And that may be the whole point of Technofeudalism -
getting more people to look at his ideas. It worked on me.


![cover](cover.jpg)
